# ISU_CS

My code is very unfinished, but since you wanted me to just submit whatever I had, that is what I'm doing. I'm sorry I couldn't get it done completely. 

The first part of my code asks the player what gamemode they would like to select. If they choose 1, the game assumes two-player, since I could only implement a theoretical two-player cycle, and not a multiplayer one where the player gets to choose the amount of people playing. The code asks for two names. If they had chosen two, nothing would have happened, since I have a boolean for againstAI, but I did not implement that feature. 

Next I establish two decks. One is a deck that is built up of all cards prior to starting the game, which is then shuffled after the addition of all the cards. That one is deck- the one players draw from when they need to draw a card. The discard pile is the one that gets cards added on to it, and the top card of this discard pile is the one players interact with two place down a card ( needs to be matching colour, number, etc). That is my string topCardDiscard, which gets updated every time a player puts down a card. Or should have gotten updated, if I had established a turn cycle. I then establish two hands which will store the cards in both player's possessions. I make a for loop that adds 7 cards from deck to this hand, then deletes the cards from deck. Then, the topCardDiscard gets set to the top card of the deck ( like a flip motion ). A while loop searches for special occurances ( wild, draw, or skip ) and removes them and adds them to the bottom of the deck to skip them, but not discard them. The topCard of the deck is established, which grabs the card at deck index one, since index zero is already taken up by topCardDiscard. I establish a playedDeck to account for all of the cards that are going to be played. I add topCardDiscard as the first card in this played deck. 

Then we enter what should have been a turn cycle, but only works for one turn. It operates on the assumption that while a turn is in progress, various actions can be made. If the action makes the turn end, the loop breaks and another starts for the next person's turn. First we get an option to play or draw a card, with the player's hand and the topCardDiscard displayed for easier understanding of the game's progression. Then as long as the card is in their hand, it searches for a special or non-special card. If it is non-special, it looks for the number in the card and searches for the number in the topCardDiscard (for future reference if they match or not ). Then if the same colour or the same number occurs, the card is playable, and it is placed down and the turn ends. If the card the player intended to put down was in their hand, but was unplayable, an option to play a different card or draw a card occurs. This draw option is also introduced at the start, and if chosen, it sends you automatically to a if choice.equals("draw") segment later on.  If they choose to play a card, the playerturn is set to false, the playCard is reset, and it sends you back up in the code to the special/non-special detector. 

Further down in the code is an else statement that uses a similar way as above to check for special letters ( W, D, S). If a wild draw four is being played, it checks each card in the hand to make sure that they are unplayable before proceeding. If there is another option, it will break the loop and send the player back to the initial card selector. If it is a valid wild draw four, then it will add four cards to the second player's hand and ask the player to input a colour choice. The corresponding letter is then added on to the wild draw four and sets that card as the new discard, making it so that in the next turn the same system of checking for colour still works. 

If it is just a wild card, then the same process occurs, but without the addition of cards to the second player's hand. 

If it is a draw or skip card, it first searches by colour, and then isolates whether it's draw/skip. If it's a draw card, it adds two cards to the second player's hand. If it were a skip card, it would skip the turn of the next player, but since I don't have a turn cycle, I'm unable to make that work yet. 

Further down we have the draw choice that I mentioned previously. If it senses that "draw" was chosen in either of the possible opportunities for it to have been chosen, then it checks if the newly drawn card matches the number or the colour of the topCardDiscard. If so, it gives the player an option to play their card ( same mechanism as before ), or to end their turn which just breaks the loop. 
